"I did what you did, John. I introduced the bugger factor. I adjusted matters in accordance with intuition—and that's
how the machine won the war."
Swift leaned back in the chair and stretched his legs out before him. "Such revelations. It turns out then that the
material handed me to guide me in my decision-making capacity was a man-made interpretation of man-made data. Isn't that
right?"
"It looks so," said Jablonsky.
"Then I perceive I was correct in not placing too much reliance upon it," said Swift.
"You didn't?" Jablonsky, despite what he had just said, managed to look professionally insulted.
"I'm afraid I didn't. Multivac might seem to say, Strike here, not there; do this, not that; wait, don't act. But I could
never be certain that what Multivac seemed to say, it really did say; or what it really said, it really meant. I could never be
certain."
"But the final report was always plain enough, sir," said Jablonsky.
"To those who did not have to make the decision, perhaps. Not to me. The horror of the responsibility of such decisions
was unbearable and not even Multivac was sufficient to remove the weight. But the point is I was justified in doubting and
there is tremendous relief in that."
Caught up in the conspiracy of mutual confession, Jablonsky put titles aside, "What was it you did then, Lamar? After all,
you did make decisions. How?"
"Well, it's time to be getting back perhaps but—I'll tell you first. Why not? I did make use of a computer, Max, but an
older one than Multivac, much older."
He groped in his own pocket for cigarettes, and brought out a package along with a scattering of small change; old-
fashioned coins dating to the first years before the metal shortage had brought into being a credit system tied to a computer-
complex.
Swift smiled rather sheepishly. "I still need these to make money seem substantial to me. An old man finds it hard to
abandon the habits of youth." He put a cigarette between his lips and dropped the coins one by one back into his pocket.
He held the last coin between his fingers, staring absently at it. "Multivac is not the first computer, friends, nor the best-
known, nor the one that can most efficiently lift the load of decision from the shoulders of the executive. A machine did win
the war, John; at least a very simple computing device did; one that I used every time I had a particularly hard decision to
make."
With a faint smile of reminiscence, he flipped the coin he held. It glinted in the air as it spun and came down in Swift's
outstretched palm. His hand closed over it and brought it down on the back of his left hand. His right hand remained in place,
hiding the coin.
"Heads or tails, gentlemen?" said Swift.
MySon,the Physicist
Her hair was light apple-green in color, very subdued, very old-fashioned. You could see she had a delicate hand with
the dye, the way they did thirty years ago, before the streaks and stipples came into fashion.
She had a sweet smile on her face, too, and a calm look that made something serene out of elderliness.
And, by comparison, it made something shrieking out of the confusion that enfolded her in the huge government
building.
A girl passed her at a half-run, stopped and turned toward her with a blank stare of astonishment. "How did you
get in?"
The woman smiled. "I'm looking for my son, the physicist."
"Your son, the—"
"He's a communications engineer, really. Senior Physicist Gerard Cremona."
"Dr. Cremona. Well, he's— Where's your pass?"
"Here it is. I'm his mother."
"Well, Mrs. Cremona, I don't know. I've got to— His office is down there. You just ask someone." She passed on,
running.
Mrs. Cremona shook her head slowly. Something had happened, she supposed. She hoped Gerard was all right.
She heard voices much farther down the corridor and smiled happily. She could tell Gerard's.
She walked into the room and said, "Hello, Gerard."
Gerard was a big man, with a lot of hair still and the gray just beginning
Copyright © 1962 by Hoffman Electronics Corporation.
to show because he didn't use dye. He said he was too busy. She was very proud of him and the way he looked.
Right now, he was talking volubly to a man in army uniform. She couldn't tell the rank, but she knew Gerard could handle
him.
Gerard looked up and said, "What do you— Mother! What are you doing here?"
"I was coming to visit you today."
"Is today Thursday? Oh Lord, I forgot. Sit down, Mother, I can't talk now. Any seat. Any seat. Look, General."
General Reiner looked over his shoulder and one hand slapped against the other in the region of the small of his back.
"Your mother?"
"Yes."
"Should she be here?"
"Right now, no, but I'll vouch for her. She can't even read a thermometer so nothing of this will mean anything to her.
Now look, General. They're on Pluto. You see? They are. The radio signals can't be of natural origin so they must originate
from human beings, from our men. You'll have to accept that. Of all the expeditions we've sent out beyond the planetoid belt,
one turns out to have made it. And they've reached Pluto."
"Yes, I understand what you're saying, but isn't it impossible just the same? The men who are on Pluto now were
launched four years ago with equipment that could not have kept them alive more than a year. That is my understanding. They
were aimed at Ganymede and seem to have gone eight times the proper distance."
"Exactly. And we've got to know how and why. They may— just—have— had—help."
"What kind? How?"
Cremona clenched his jaws for a moment as though praying inwardly. "General," he said, "I'm putting myself out
on a limb but it is just barely possible non-humans are involved. Extra-terrestrials. We've got to find out. We don't know
how long contact can be maintained."
"You mean" (the General's grave face twitched into an almost-smile) "they may have escaped from custody and
they may be recaptured again at any time."
"Maybe. Maybe. The whole future of the human race may depend on our knowing exactly what we're up against.
Knowing it now."
"All right. What is it you want?"
"We're going to need Army's Multivac computer at once. Rip out every problem it's working on and start programing
our general semantic problem. Every communications engineer you have must be pulled off anything he's on and placed
into coordination with our own."
"But why? I fail to see the connection."
A gentle voice interrupted. "General, would you like a piece of fruit? I brought some oranges."
Cremona said, "Mother! Please! Later! General, the point is a simple one. At the present moment Pluto is just under four
billion miles away. It takes six hours for radio waves, traveling at the speed of light, to reach from here to there. If we say
something, we must wait twelve hours for an answer. If they say something and we miss it and say 'what' and they repeat—
bang, goes a day."
"There's no way to speed it up?" said the General.
"Of course not. It's the fundamental law of communications. No information can be transmitted at more than the speed
of light. It will take months to carry on the same conversation with Pluto that would take hours between the two of us right
now."
"Yes, I see that. And you really think extra-terrestrials are involved?"
"I do. To be honest, not everyone here agrees with me. Still, we're straining every nerve, every fiber, to devise some
method of concentrating communication. We must get in as many bits per second as possible and pray we get what we need
before we lose contact. And there's where I need Multivac and your men. There must be some communications strategy we
can use that will reduce the number of signals we need send out. Even an increase of ten percent in efficiency can mean
perhaps a week of time saved."
The gentle voice interrupted again. "Good grief, Gerard, are you trying to get some talking done?"
"Mother! Please!"
"But you're going about it the wrong way. Really."
"Mother." There was a hysterical edge to Cremona's voice.
"Well, all right, but if you're going to say something and then wait twelve hours for an answer, you're silly. You
shouldn't."
The General snorted. "Dr. Cremona, shall we consult—"
"Just one moment, General," said Cremona. "What are you getting at, Mother?"
"While you're waiting for an answer," said Mrs. Cremona, earnestly, "just keep on transmitting and tell them to do the
same. You talk all the time and they talk all the time. You have someone listening all the time and they do, too. If either one
of you says anything that needs an answer, you can slip one in at your end, but chances are, you'll get all you need without
asking."
Both men stared at her.
Cremona whispered, "Of course. Continuous conversation. Just twelve hours out of phase, that's all. God, we've got to
get going."
He strode out of the room, virtually dragging the General with him, then strode back in.
"Mother," he said, "if you'll excuse me, this will take a few hours, I think. I'll send in some girls to talk to you. Or take a
nap, if you'd rather."
"I'll be all right, Gerard," said Mrs. Cremona.
"Only, how did you think of this, Mother? What made you suggest this?"
"But, Gerard, all women know it. Any two women—on the video-phone, or on the stratowire, or just face to face—
know that the whole secret to spreading the news is, no matter what, to Just Keep Talking."
Cremona tried to smile. Then, his lower lip trembling, he turned and left.
Mrs. Cremona looked fondly after him. Such a fine man, her son, the physicist. Big as he was and important as he
was, he still knew that a boy should always listen to his mother.
EyesDoMorethanSee
After hundreds of billions of years, he suddenly thought of himself as Ames. Not the wavelength combination which, through
all the universe was now the equivalent of Ames— but the sound itself. A faint memory came back of the sound waves he no longer
heard and no longer could hear.
The new project was sharpening his memory for so many more of the old, old, eons-old things. He flattened the energy vortex
that made up the total of his individuality and its lines of force stretched beyond the stars.
Brock's answering signal came.
Surely, Ames thought, he could tell Brock. Surely he could tell somebody.
Brock's shifting energy pattern communed, "Aren't you coming, Ames?"
"Of course."
"Will you take part in the contest?"
"Yes!" Ames's lines of force pulsed erratically. "Most certainly. I have thought of a whole new art-form. Something really
unusual."
"What a waste of effort! How can you think a new variation can be thought of after two hundred billion years. There can be
nothing new."
For a moment Brock shifted out of phase and out of communion, so that Ames had to hurry to adjust his lines of force. He
caught the drift of other-thoughts as he did so, the view of the powdered galaxies against the velvet of nothingness, and the lines of
force pulsing in endless multitudes of energy-life, lying between the galaxies.
Ames said, "Please absorb my thoughts, Brock. Don't close out. I've thought of manipulating Matter. Imagine! A symphony of
Matter. Why
Copyright © 1965 by Mercury Press, Inc.
bother with Energy. Of course, there's nothing new in Energy; how can there be? Doesn't that show we must deal with
Matter?"
"Matter!"
Ames interpreted Brock's energy-vibrations as those of disgust.
He said, "Why not? We were once Matter ourselves back—back— Oh, a trillion years ago anyway! Why not build up objects
in a Matter medium, or abstract forms or—listen, Brock—why not build up an imitation of ourselves in Matter, ourselves as we used
to be?"
Brock said, "I don't remember how that was. No one does."
"I do," said Ames with energy, "I've been thinking of nothing else and I am beginning to remember. Brock, let me show
you. Tell me if I'm right. Tell me."
"No. This is silly. It's—repulsive."
"Let me try, Brock. We've been friends; we've pulsed energy together from the beginning—from the moment we became
what we are. Brock, please!"
"Then, quickly."
Ames had not felt such a tremor along his own lines of force in—well, in how long? If he tried it now for Brock and it worked,
he could dare manipulate Matter before the assembled Energy-beings who had so drearily waited over the eons for something new.
The Matter was thin out there between the galaxies, but Ames gathered it, scraping it together over the cubic light-years,
choosing the atoms, achieving a clayey consistency and forcing matter into an ovoid form that spread out below.
"Don't you remember, Brock?" he asked softly. "Wasn't it something like this?"
Brock's vortex trembled in phase. "Don't make me remember. I don't remember."
"That was the head. They called it the head. I remember it so clearly, I want to say it. I mean with sound." He waited, then
said, "Look, do you remember that?"
On the upper front of the ovoid appeared HEAD.
"What is that?" asked Brock.
"That's the word for head. The symbols that meant the word in sound. Tell me you remember, Brock!"
"There was something," said Brock hesitantly, "something in the middle." A vertical bulge formed.
Ames said, "Yes! Nose, that's it!" And NOSE appeared upon it. "And those are eyes on either side," LEFT EYE—
RIGHT EYE.
Ames regarded what he had formed, his lines of force pulsing slowly. Was he sure he liked this?
"Mouth," he said, in small quiverings, "and chin and Adam's apple, and
the collarbones. How the words come back to me." They appeared on the form.
Brock said, "I haven't thought of them for hundreds of billions of years. Why have you reminded me? Why?"
Ames was momentarily lost in his thoughts, "Something else. Organs to hear with; something for the sound waves. Ears!
Where do they go? I don't remember where to put them!"
Brock cried out, "Leave it alone! Ears and all else! Don't remember!"
Ames said, uncertainly, "What is wrong with remembering?"
"Because the outside wasn't rough and cold like that but smooth and warm. Because the eyes were tender and alive and the
lips of the mouth trembled and were soft on mine." Brock's lines of force beat and wavered, beat and wavered.
Ames said, "I'm sorry! I'm sorry!"
"You're reminding me that once I was a woman and knew love; that eyes do more than see and I have none to do it for me."
With violence, she added matter to the rough-hewn head and said, "Then let them do it" and turned and fled.
And Ames saw and remembered, too, that once he had been a man. The force of his vortex split the head in two and he fled
back across the galaxies on the energy-track of Brock— back to the endless doom of life.
And the eyes of the shattered head of Matter still glistened with the moisture that Brock had placed there to represent tears.
The head of Matter did that which the energy-beings could do no longer and it wept for all humanity, and for the fragile beauty of
the bodies they had once given up, a trillion years ago.
Segregationist
The surgeon looked up without expression. "Is he ready?"
"Ready is a relative term," said the med-eng. "We're ready. He's restless."
"They always are. . . . Well, it's a serious operation."
"Serious or not, he should be thankful. He's been chosen for it over an enormous number of possibles and frankly, I don't
think . . ."
"Don't say it," said the surgeon. "The decision is not ours to make."
"We accept it. But do we have to agree?"
"Yes," said the surgeon, crisply. "We agree. Completely and wholeheartedly. The operation is entirely too intricate to approach
with mental reservations. This man has proven his worth in a number of ways and his profile is suitable for the Board of Mortality."
"All right," said the med-eng, unmollified.
The surgeon said, "I'll see him right in here, I think. It is small enough and personal enough to be comforting."
"It won't help. He's nervous, and he's made up his mind."
"Has he indeed?"
"Yes. He wants metal; they always do."
The surgeon's face did not change expression. He stared at his hands. "Sometimes one can talk them out of it."
"Why bother?" said the med-eng, indifferently. "If he wants metal, let it be metal."
"You don't care?"
"Why should I?" The med-eng said it almost brutally. "Either way it's a
Copyright © 1968 by Isaac Asimov.
medical engineering problem and I'm a medical engineer. Either way, I can handle it. Why should I go beyond that?"
The surgeon said stolidly, "To me, it is a matter of the fitness of things."
"Fitness! You can't use that as an argument. What does the patient care about the fitness of things?"
"I care."
"You care in a minority. The trend is against you. You have no chance."
"I have to try." The surgeon waved the med-eng into silence with a quick wave of his hand— no impatience to it, merely
quickness. He had already informed the nurse and he had already been signaled concerning her approach. He pressed a small
button and the double-door pulled swiftly apart. The patient moved inward in his motorchair, the nurse stepping briskly along
beside him.
"You may go, nurse," said the surgeon, "but wait outside. I will be calling you." He nodded to the med-eng, who left with the
nurse, and the door closed behind them.
The man in the chair looked over his shoulder and watched them go. His neck was scrawny and there were fine wrinkles about
his eyes. He was freshly shaven and the fingers of his hands, as they gripped the arms of the chair tightly, showed manicured nails.
He was a high-priority patient and he was being taken care of. . . . But there was a look of settled peevishness on his face.
He said, "Will we be starting today?"
The surgeon nodded. "This afternoon, Senator."
"I understand it will take weeks."
"Not for the operation itself, Senator. But there are a number of subsidiary points to be taken care of. There are some
circulatory renovations that must be carried through, and hormonal adjustments. These are tricky things."
"Are they dangerous?" Then, as though feeling the need for establishing a friendly relationship, but patently against his will,
he added, ". . . doctor?"
The surgeon paid no attention to the nuances of expression. He said, flatly, "Everything is dangerous. We take our time in
order that it be less dangerous. It is the time required, the skill of many individuals united, the equipment, that makes such
operations available to so few . . . "
"I know that," said the patient, restlessly. "I refuse to feel guilty about that. Or are you implying improper pressure?"
"Not at all, Senator. The decisions of the Board have never been questioned. I mention the difficulty and intricacy of the
operation merely to explain my desire to have it conducted in the best fashion possible."
"Well, do so, then. That is my desire, also."
"Then I must ask you to make a decision. It is possible to supply you with either of two types of cyber-hearts, metal or . . ."
"Plastic!" said the patient, irritably. "Isn't that the alternative you were going to offer, doctor? Cheap plastic. I don't want
that. I've made my choice. I want the metal."
"But . . ."
"See here. I've been told the choice rests with me. Isn't that so?"
The surgeon nodded. "Where two alternate procedures are of equal value from a medical standpoint, the choice rests with
the patient. In actual practice, the choice rests with the patient even when the alternate procedures are not of equal value, as in
this case."
The patient's eyes narrowed. "Are you trying to tell me the plastic heart is superior?"
"It depends on the patient. In my opinion, in your individual case, it is. And we prefer not to use the term, plastic. It is a
fibrous cyber-heart."
"It's plastic as far as I am concerned."
"Senator," said the surgeon, infinitely patient, "the material is not plastic in the ordinary sense of the word. It is a polymeric
material true, but one that is far more complex than ordinary plastic. It is a complex protein-like fibre designed to imitate, as
closely as possible, the natural structure of the human heart you now have within your chest."
"Exactly, and the human heart I now have within my chest is worn out although I am not yet sixty years old. I don't want
another one like it, thank you. I want something better."
"We all want something better for you, Senator. The fibrous cyber-heart will be better. It has a potential life of centuries. It
is absolutely non-aller genie . . . "
"Isn't that so for the metallic heart, too?"
"Yes, it is," said the surgeon. "The metallic cyber is of titanium alloy that . . ."
"And it doesn't wear out? And it is stronger than plastic? Or fibre or whatever you want to call it?"
"The metal is physically stronger, yes, but mechanical strength is not a point at issue. Its mechanical strength does you no
particular good since the heart is well protected. Anything capable of reaching the heart will kill you for other reasons even if the
heart stands up under manhandling."
The patient shrugged. "If I ever break a rib, I'll have that replaced by titanium, also. Replacing bones is easy. Anyone can
have that done anytime. I'll be as metallic as I want to be, doctor."
"That is your right, if you so choose. However, it is only fair to tell you that although no metallic cyber-heart has ever broken
down mechanically, a number have broken down electronically."
"What does that mean?"
"It means that every cyber-heart contains a pacemaker as part of its structure. In the case of the metallic variety, this is an
electronic device that keeps the cyber in rhythm. It means an entire battery of miniaturized equip-
ment must be included to alter the heart's rhythm to suit an individual's emotional and physical state. Occasionally something
goes wrong there and people have died before that wrong could be corrected."
"I never heard of such a thing."
"I assure you it happens."
"Are you telling me it happens often?"
"Not at all. It happens very rarely."
"Well, then, I'll take my chance. What about the plastic heart? Doesn't that contain a pacemaker?"
"Of course it does, Senator. But the chemical structure of a fibrous cyber-heart is quite close to that of human tissue. It can
respond to the ionic and hormonal controls of the body itself. The total complex that need be inserted is far simpler than in the
case of the metal cyber."
"But doesn't the plastic heart ever pop out of hormonal control?"
"None has ever yet done so."
"Because you haven't been working with them long enough. Isn't that so?"
The surgeon hesitated. "It is true that the fibrous cybers have not been used nearly as long as the metallic."
"There you are. What is it anyway, doctor? Are you afraid I'm making myself into a robot . . . into a Metallo, as they call
them since citizenship went through?"
"There is nothing wrong with a Metallo as a Metallo. As you say, they are citizens. But you're not a Metallo. You're a human
being. Why not stay a human being?"
"Because I want the best and that's a metallic heart. You see to that."
The surgeon nodded. "Very well. You will be asked to sign the necessary permissions and you will then be fitted with a metal
heart."
"And you'll be the surgeon in charge? They tell me you're the best."
"I will do what I can to make the changeover an easy one."
The door opened and the chair moved the patient out to the waiting nurse.
The med-eng came in, looking over his shoulder at the receding patient until the doors had closed again.
He turned to the surgeon. "Well, I can't tell what happened just by looking at you. What was his decision?"
The surgeon bent over his desk, punching out the final items for his records. "What you predicted. He insists on the metallic
cyber-heart."
"After all, they are better."
"Not significantly. They've been around longer; no more than that. It's this mania that's been plaguing humanity ever since
Metallos have become citizens. Men have this odd desire to make Metallos out of themselves.
F
They yearn for the physical strength and endurance one associates with them."
"It isn't one-sided, doc. You don't work with Metallos but I do; so I know. The last two who came in for repairs have asked for
fibrous elements."
"Did they get them?"
"In one case, it was just a matter of supplying tendons; it didn't make much difference there, metal or fibre. The other
wanted a blood system or its equivalent. I told him I couldn't; not without a complete rebuilding of the structure of his body in
fibrous material. . . . I suppose it will come to that some day. Metallos that aren't really Metallos at all, but a kind of flesh and
blood."
"You don't mind that thought?"
"Why not? And metallized human beings, too. We have two varieties of intelligence on Earth now and why bother with
two. Let them approach each other and eventually we won't be able to tell the difference. Why should we want to? We'd
have the best of both worlds; the advantages of man combined with those of robot."
"You'd get a hybrid," said the surgeon, with something that approached fierceness. "You'd get something that is not both, but
neither. Isn't it logical to suppose an individual would be too proud of his structure and identity to want to dilute it with something
alien? Would he want mongrelization?"
"That's segregationist talk."
"Then let it be that." The surgeon said with calm emphasis, "I believe in being what one is. I wouldn't change a bit of my
own structure for any reason. If some of it absolutely required replacement, I would have that replacement as close to the
original in nature as could possibly be managed. I am myself; well pleased to be myself; and would not be anything else."
He had finished now and had to prepare for the operation. He placed his strong hands into the heating oven and let them
reach the dull red-hot glow that would sterilize them completely. For all his impassioned words, his voice had never risen, and
on his burnished metal face there was (as always) no sign of expression.
I Just Make Them Up, See!
Oh, Dr. A. —
Oh, Dr. A. —
There is something (don't go 'way)
That I'd like to hear you say.
Though I'd rather die
Than try
To pry,
The fact, you'll find,
Is that my mind
Has evolved the jackpot question for today.
I intend no cheap derision,
So please answer with decision,
And, discarding all your petty cautious fears,
Tell the secret of your vision!
How on earth
Do you give birth
To those crazy and impossible ideas?
Is it indigestion
And a question
Of the nightmare that results?
Of your eyeballs whirling,
Copyright ® 1957 by Fantasy House, Inc.
Twirling,
Fingers curling
And unfurling,
While your blood beats maddened chimes
As it keeps impassioned times
With your thick, uneven pulse?
Is it that, you think, or liquor
That brings on the wildness quicker?
For a teeny
Weeny
Dry martini
May be just your private genie;
Or perhaps those Tom and ferries
You will find the very
Berries
For inducing
And unloosing
That weird gimmick or that kicker;
Or an awful
Combination
Of unlawful
Stimulation,
Marijuana plus tequila,
That will give you just that feel o'
Things a-clicking
And unsticking
As you start your cerebration
To the crazy syncopation
Of a brain a-tocking-ticking.
Surely something, Dr. A., Makes you fey And quite outrt. Since I read you with devotion, Won't you give me just a
notion Of that shrewdly pepped-up potion Out of which emerge your plots? That wild secret bubbly mixture That has made
you such a fixture In most favored s.f. spots—
Now, Dr. A., Don't go away—
Oh, Dr. A. — Oh, Dr. A. —
RejectionSlips
a—Learned
Dear Asimov, all mental laws Prove orthodoxy has its flaws. Consider that eclectic clause In Kant's philosophy that gnaws
With ceaseless anti-logic jaws At all outworn and useless saws That stick in modern mutant craws. So here's your tale (with
faint applause). The words above show ample cause.
b—Gruff
Dear Ike, I was prepared
(And, boy, I really cared) To swallow almost anything you wrote.
But, Ike, you're just plain shot,
Your writing's gone to pot, There's nothing left but hack and mental bloat.
Take back this piece of junk;
It smelled; it reeked; it stunk; Just glancing through it once was deadly rough.
But Ike, boy, by and by,
Copyright © 1959 by Isaac Asiniov.
Just try another try. I need some yams and, kid, I love your stuff.
c—Kindly
Dear Isaac, friend of mine,
I thought your tale was fine.
Just frightful-
Ly delightful
And with merits all a-shine.
It meant a quite full
Night, full,
Friend, of tension
Then relief
And attended
With full measure
Of the pleasure
Of suspended
Disbelief.
It is triteful,
Scarcely rightful,
Almost spiteful
To declare
That some tiny faults are there.
Nothing much,
Perhaps a touch,
And over such
You shouldn't pine.
So let me say
Without delay,
My pal, my friend,
Your story's end
Has left me gay
And joyfully composed.
P. S.
Oh, yes,
I must confess
(With some distress)
Your story is regretfully enclosed.
ABOUT THE AUTHOR
Isaac Asimov was born in the Soviet Union to his great surprise. He moved quickly to correct the situation. When his
parents emigrated to the United States, Isaac (three years old at the time) stowed away in their baggage. He has been an
American citizen since the age of eight.
Brought up in Brooklyn, and educated in its public schools, he eventually found his way to Columbia University and,
over the protests of the school administration, managed to annex a series of degrees in chemistry, up to and including a
Ph.D. He then infiltrated Boston University and climbed the academic ladder, ignoring all cries of outrage, until he found
himself Professor of Biochemistry.
Meanwhile, at the age of nine, he found the love of his life (in the inanimate sense) when he discovered his first
science-fiction magazine. By the time he was eleven, he began to write stories, and at eighteen, he actually worked up
the nerve to submit one. It was rejected. After four long months of tribulation and suffering, he sold his first story and,
thereafter, he never looked back.
In 1941, when he was twenty-one years old, he wrote the classic short story "Nightfall" and his future was
assured. Shortly before that he had begun writing his robot stories, and shortly after that he had begun his Foundation
series.
What was left except quantity? At the present time, he has published over 440 books, distributed through every
major division of the Dewey system of library classification, and shows no signs of slowing up. He remains as youthful, as
lively, and as lovable as ever, and grows more handsome with each year. You can be sure that this is so since he has written
this little essay himself and his devotion to absolute objectivity is notorious.
He is married to Janet Jeppson, psychiatrist and writer, has two children by a previous marriage, and lives in New
York City.